fix(docs): accuracy of migrating-from-nx (#10003)
vercel/turborepo: docs/repo-docs/guides/migrating-from-nx.mdx

## Why switch?

### Specific Focus

Turborepo is focused on TypeScript and JavaScript packages [built on top of package manager workspaces](/repo/docs/crafting-your-repository/structuring-a-repository). If this matches your focus, you may find it easier to navigate Turborepo's set of features and documentation to find what you are looking for.

### Vercel Interoperability

If you are already a part of the Vercel ecosystem, for example using the infrastructure provided by us, then you will feel right at home with Turborepo.

> We provide dedicated [Remote Caching](/repo/docs/core-concepts/remote-caching) options for all Turborepo users, where we store the results of your task on a cloud server. This saves enormous amounts of time by **preventing duplicated work across your entire organization**. [Vercel Remote Cache](https://vercel.com/docs/monorepos/remote-caching) has saved teams over 500 years of compute so far.

Reviewer: I'm having a hard time seeing how Turborepo working great on Vercel is relevant to this doc. While true, this documentation is meant for folks migrating from Nx to Turborepo. It doesn't have anything to do with Vercel, nor should it. It's very possible that someone could be getting acquainted with Turborepo for the first time on this document, and this section would be misleading for them.

I don't know how else to read these edits other than a projection about the way Nx has been closing off the open-source parts of its offering, [according to what Nx users have been repeatedly telling me](https://github.com/vercel/turborepo/pull/10003#discussion_r1962266377). I don't write this to be rude or antagonistic, but I can't tell what these edits are meant to be for and am having to guess.

We take great pride in creating an open-source project that anyone can use how they wish. As fate would have it, this morning we just finished up some improvements for self-hosting ([ref](https://github.com/vercel/turborepo/pull/9998) and [ref](https://github.com/vercel/turborepo/pull/10009)) and I've been working on creating an OpenAPI spec for our docs the past week or so.

Were you meaning something else entirely and it's mis-written/I'm not getting it?

Author: I'm sorry if it wasn't clear in the video, but in it I tried to relay the following: I am not an expert on Turborepo, and so this was an honest attempt by me to provide additional, objective steelman arguments as to why you might want to switch.

As I demonstrated, some of the existing arguments needed to be removed completely due to their inaccuracy, so I wanted to offer up ideas for replacements that I felt were honest and objective (again with the caveat that I am not deep enough to know all of the potential benefits of Turborepo and they are therefore high level starting points for discussion).

If you disagree with this point and don't want it included that's totally fine, and I'm sure you can come up with other points to replace it (do feel free to commit directly to the branch if you want to). 

Vercel famously makes a ton of open-source tooling, so I am not really sure what the link is there with what you're saying and why you thought it was a negative thing, it wasn't intended to be one.

Reviewer: Sounds good! I illustrated how the spirit of those sections should stay [here](https://github.com/vercel/turborepo/pull/10003#pullrequestreview-2628659348), so let's refocus there.

}
```

```json title="project.json"
{
  "name": "starter",
  "$schema": "../../node_modules/nx/schemas/project-schema.json",
  "sourceRoot": "apps/starter",
  "projectType": "application",
  "tags": [],
  "// targets": "to see all targets run: nx show project starter --web",
  "targets": {}
}
```

</Tab>

</Tabs>

> ### Free Remote Caching

Reviewer 2: I've not watched the video in full maybe their an explanation. I love NX and I know nx offer "free license" but I think this section.

Lot of the rest fair just thisnsection removal seems strange

Reviewer: There is _an_ explanation given in the video, but I'm having the hardest time understanding it.

An explicit reason for this section getting written has been an influx of new users to Turborepo, coming from Nx, because of a change in the cost structure of using Nx. They're finding that features that they used to use for free aren't free anymore.

Note that this is **specifically not my experience or something I went out of my way to invent**. This is written how it is because of experiences other developers have shared with me. The first couple times I heard it, I went and read the docs about how it works now, and was confused by the explanations and documentation given. In one place it would sound like its part of the open-source offering, and the next would sound like it isn't.

I continually pestered the people I was talking to about this, and insisted that maybe they were misunderstanding the documentation (hoping that their familiarity with the tool or Nx team would lead me to concluding that the feature is still free), but they repeated that it was the case that they were losing features.

From the conversations I've had, questions I've answered, and frequency at which this comes up, I don't see any other option than having to mention this paradigm in this documentation.

Reviewer 2: Ive been extremely vocal around this with NX. Many still feel like the free license not enough and their no way to run remote cache without it being a NX licensed software. I've got a hot patch but once it goes to rust it's nesr impossible

> npx create-nx-workspace --workspaces --preset=next --ci=skip --e2eTestRunner=none --unitTestRunner=none --style=tailwind --nextAppDir=true --nextSrcDir=false --appName=starter

Reviewer: I can see why these changes to start with a JS Workspace would make sense without context. I did it without a Workspace because everyone I've had to help with a migration comes from a place of being mis-aligned with the JS ecosystem due to the recommendations of the Nx documentation. Without fail, we have to introduce the Workspace first, and then we continue with the rest.

Would you want to take another try at it to make the doc say something to the effect of "If you already are using Workspaces, you can skip steps x, y, and z"? A banner above this code block would likely suffice.

Author: I do feel like inflammatory language like "misaligned with the JS ecosystem" isn't particularly helpful to the discourse. I don't think the countless monorepos out there deriving enormous value from the setup that Nx originally started with (before the prevalence of package manager workspaces) deserve such a derogatory label. We still provide support for this/them, in addition to package manager workspaces. You have to remember your sampling bias here, it is exclusively folks who are already dissatisfied that are going through this with you.

I'm not fully picturing what your proposing but I _think_ it sounds reasonable, maybe I could take a look at the change if you make it please?

</PackageManagerTabs>

### Step 7: Add a `turbo.json`

> Create a `turbo.json` at the root to register your tasks and describe their task dependencies. Note, this does not yet cover the same functionality as was in the original `nx.json` and is an example of getting started quickly with a subset of capabilities.

Reviewer: Can you say what tasks are missing?

Author: Sure yeah, again this is regarding the argument that Nx requires "more configuration" and this felt like it wasn't clearly established as being intentionally not "apples to apples". 

Here in Step 7 you have a tasks configuration that only deals with building and serving the Next.js application, whereas the `nx.json` we start the process with covers building, serving (both from source and from dist), typechecking and linting.

### Installing dependencies where they're used

> Turborepo recommends [installing packages where they're used](/repo/docs/crafting-your-repository/managing-dependencies#best-practices-for-dependency-installation) to improve cache hit ratios, help dependency pruning capability, and clarify for developers which dependencies are meant for which packages. This is different from the Nx strategy, where all dependencies are installed at the root of the repository, making all dependencies available to all packages in the workspace.

Reviewer: I'm also confused why this is being proposed for removal. I wrote this because it comes up every time I'm working with someone on a migration. It tends to be a point of confusion, which is why I called it out specifically.

@JamesHenry, can you clarify?

> Turborepo recommends [installing packages where they're used](/repo/docs/crafting-your-repository/managing-dependencies#best-practices-for-dependency-installation) to improve cache hit ratios, help dependency pruning capability, and clarify for developers which dependencies are meant for which packages. This is different from the Nx strategy, where all dependencies are installed at the root of the repository, making all dependencies available to all packages in the workspace.

Reviewer 2: NX always support workspaces or for agesm project crystal made this even more clear. While most will install at root their is no requirement and works fine using package managers Workspace.

> Turborepo recommends [installing packages where they're used](/repo/docs/crafting-your-repository/managing-dependencies#best-practices-for-dependency-installation) to improve cache hit ratios, help dependency pruning capability, and clarify for developers which dependencies are meant for which packages. This is different from the Nx strategy, where all dependencies are installed at the root of the repository, making all dependencies available to all packages in the workspace.

Reviewer: While it does function, it's [not good practice](https://turbo.build/repo/docs/crafting-your-repository/managing-dependencies#best-practices-for-dependency-installation), and something that users have to unwind while they migrate to improve their repositories.

Maybe [this change suggestion](https://github.com/vercel/turborepo/pull/10003#discussion_r1962334360) helps? Like I said, this problem comes up any time I'm working with someone on this migration, so its highly relevant and worth being mentioned.

> Turborepo recommends [installing packages where they're used](/repo/docs/crafting-your-repository/managing-dependencies#best-practices-for-dependency-installation) to improve cache hit ratios, help dependency pruning capability, and clarify for developers which dependencies are meant for which packages. This is different from the Nx strategy, where all dependencies are installed at the root of the repository, making all dependencies available to all packages in the workspace.

Author: I'm really grateful to have had this conversation and gone through this exercise because it's highlighted some areas where our documentation hasn't fully kept pace with the tooling and we are now actively correcting that.

It's important that we don't let out of date documentation dictate current summaries of Nx's philosophy or capabilities on your website, though.

Whether teams choose to maintain independent dependencies or adopt a single version policy should be based on their specific requirements, team structure, and operational needs. Nx supports both approaches equally well (as I demonstrated in my video), and we're committed to maintaining this flexibility.

The way your document is currently written make it seem like Nx is making the decision and the user is just along for the ride, which of course is not the case. Even changing it to "Nx recommends single version policy" is simply not accurate and has not been for a good while. Again, this is on us for not keeping elements of our documentation up to date, and that is being addressed right now.

For example, here is our most directly relevant documentation on this, and it's now fully up to date:

https://nx.dev/concepts/decisions/dependency-management

---

Just so you, and anyone else reading this, have full context, our historical recommendation of single version policy was taken directly from our founders' first hand experience working for Google, where famously a true monorepo is operated at the largest possible scale. Without single version policy it would be literally impossible.

We have seen such an approach have similar benefits at the scale of our largest enterprise customers because it helps with direct code reuse and avoiding _unintentional_ silos, amongst other things. This is not to be confused with intentional deviation between teams for operational reasons, which again is fully supported and embraced when developers choose it for themselves.

Over the past few years, Nx has evolved significantly. With first-class support for modern solutions like module federation, we've enhanced our ability to support teams that need or choose to maintain independent dependency versions. Our recommendations and tooling have naturally evolved alongside these capabilities.

Thank you again for helping us identify this documentation discrepancy - it's through conversations like these that we can better serve the developer community.

> Turborepo recommends [installing packages where they're used](/repo/docs/crafting-your-repository/managing-dependencies#best-practices-for-dependency-installation) to improve cache hit ratios, help dependency pruning capability, and clarify for developers which dependencies are meant for which packages. This is different from the Nx strategy, where all dependencies are installed at the root of the repository, making all dependencies available to all packages in the workspace.

Reviewer: That's great! I proposed a new change [here](https://github.com/vercel/turborepo/pull/10003/files#r1963945736) to reflect that context.

> Turborepo recommends [installing packages where they're used](/repo/docs/crafting-your-repository/managing-dependencies#best-practices-for-dependency-installation) to improve cache hit ratios, help dependency pruning capability, and clarify for developers which dependencies are meant for which packages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Turborepo recommends [installing packages where they're used](/repo/docs/crafting-your-repository/managing-dependencies#best-practices-for-dependency-installation) to improve cache hit ratios, help dependency pruning capability, and clarify for developers which dependencies are meant for which packages. This is different from the recommended Nx strategy, where all dependencies are installed at the root of the repository, making all dependencies available to all packages in the workspace.
```

Reviewer: Just added "recommended" here. Thinking that helps to clarify? More context in [this thread](https://github.com/vercel/turborepo/pull/10003#discussion_r1962310092) as well.

Author: Thanks, I responded on the the thread

> Once you have tasks running through Turborepo, we highly recommend that you move dependencies to the `package.json`'s for packages and applications that need them. [Visit our documentation on managing dependencies](/repo/docs/crafting-your-repository/managing-dependencies) to learn more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Historically, Nx has recommended installing all dependencies in the root of the repository, making all dependencies available to all packages in the workspace. If you followed this guidance, we highly recommend that you move dependencies to the `package.json`'s for packages and applications that need them. [Visit our documentation on managing dependencies](/repo/docs/crafting-your-repository/managing-dependencies) to learn more.
```
